Method
Subjects
A sample of US firms listed in the S&P500 index for the year 2016... These firms consists of various board room size
between (specify the range here...). All the firms used in this study consists of various industries within the US
technology sector. Also all of the firms used in the study are classified as publicly traded firms. By law, each of
this firms are required to file a financial report to the SEC. The 10-K Financial report of all the firms used in this
study have been used in the selection of the firms. Firms without a complete 10-K financial report was excluded from
the study. Also data on the gender diversity of the board-number of women and the percentage of women on the board-were
available. Firms that did not have any reported data on the gender composition of its board were excluded from the 
study's final sample. Last, we have used only firms that has its business incorporated in the United States. In otherwords
this will mean firms that has both its headquaters and all of legal details established in the United States.
Technology firms listed in the S&P500 but are not incorporated in the United States (for example Accenture, 
incorporated in Dublin) or have its headquaters set up in the United States are excluded from the final sample used 
in the research. We have taken all this approaches to ensure that all firms used in this
study share the same basic characteristics or nature of operation.  
[Discuss about the firms but don't talk in details about the characteristics of data.]



Procedure
The present research study followed a quantitative approach for collecting and analyzing the data needed for the
investigating the relationship between the number of women on the board and the firm's financial performance.
We collected data on female directors for each firm presented in this study using several packages available 
in the R statistical tool. The data on female directors is available in an online table format that is publicly
accessible from its source. Using R and several of its packages, we were able to search, collect, and prepare the
data on female directors for each technology firm presented in the final sample of the study. Also, using the R 
statistical tool, we were able to exclude firms that did not have a record of its board composition on the source.
After carefully formatting each variable in the data, we were able to store the data in comma-separated file.
We also collected financial data of firms, which were already available in excel file format from the source where 
the data was collected from. Using several packages from the R statistical tool, we were able to select the required
financial variables that we needed for each firm included in the final sample. Also with R, we were able to exclude
any firm which did not have its complete financial records available from its source or did not have the complete
set of variables that is required in completing the study. After preparing the financial data for each firm, we then
stored it a comma separated file. 
We merged both comma-separted file to create the final sample, which includes only firms with a complete financial
and female directors data. For firms that did not meet any of the aforementioned criteria, we excluded them from the
final sample.
[Ensure to state any criteria for the admissibility of the data to prevent bias]

Source
Our intial sample for the present study consists of data that were extracted from several online sources. 
Our first online source is the YCharts application, which was used to obtain the ticker symbol and names of the
56 companies listed on the S&P500 index for the year 2016. Our second online source was from the sec.gov website,
which uses an online database called EDGAR that tracks financial reports made by publicly traded firms in the 
United States. We queried the EDGAR database using the unique ticker symbol of firms included in our final sample, to
obtain their required financial reports. We obtained the 10-K annual financial report for all the 49 technology 
firms listed in the final sample.
The 2020 women on board website, contains information about the composition of the board of directors for 
over 1800 firms globally. Using the R statistical tool, to filter and obtain data on the board of directors from this
source for only firms in the technology sector. The result of our search consisted of 277 firms, which included technology
firms located both in the United States and several other countries. In order to exclude the firms that are 
incorporated in another country other than in the United States, we used the data we obtained from the sec.gov website,
which contains only US technology firms, and then merged it with our data that consists of the board composition of 277 
technology firms. After careful formating of variables and preparing the data for storage in a comma-separated file
format, our final sample consisted of 49 firms. All one of these 49 firms consists of a complete data on their financial
report from Sec.gov and a compelete data on their board composition from the 2020 women on board's website.


Classification of data
The sample 

data used in the study is classified by their inherent quality as continous data. This implies that the
variables in the sample data take on varying number of possible values rather than having a finite and small number
of possible values. Also we classified the sample data by how they are to be measured as interval and ratio data.
We grouped the data into different level to represent firms that are either categorizeds as having a low, medium, and high board
size. This was important during the analysis of the data to test our null hypothesis that was presented earlier in the study.
We also classified the data of our sample as bivariate. This allowed us to investigate the relationship between two 
separate variables at a time. Therefore, the likely correlation between WOB and ROAA as well as the likely correlation
between WOB and ROAE.
We have three 
variables that we will investigating separately. In a separate scenario, we investigated the relationship between 
ROAA  and WOB. In a another scenario, we investigated the relationship between ROAE and WOB. 
More about these three variables will be discussed in details in the measure section. For each observation,
we investigated the effect of WOB on either of the two accounting measures (i.e. ROAA or ROAE).
(Independent and dependent variables are terms used in an experiment methodology or design. So except you're 
planning on doing one, these variables are not to be discussed in this study)


Measure (Variables and derived variables ROAA, ROAE used in measuring performance. Their formulas)
 

[Discuss the measures, these are the differenct characteristis or variables in the data]
[Focus more on discussing how this two variables, ROAA and ROAE are used to measure a firm's performance
provide their calculations as well.]
[Briefly talk about other variables and then provide a pie chart and descriptive statistic table overview of the final sample
making sure to state their type, mean, median, sd and other form of measure]
[Relate some meaning to the reader regarding the table and be very specific.]


Methodology
The present research focus is based on investigating the relationship between female directors and firm's financial 
performance. We do not intend to determine any cause and effect relationship in this research. Instead, we
attempt to examine the situation as it is between the characteristics by adopting a correlational reasearch 
approach, which is a type of quantitave research methodology that falls under the broad heading of descriptive
quantitative research. Following this approach, we identfied both the characteristics and possible correlations 
that may exist between ROAA and WOB, ROAE and WOB, and ROAA and ROAE. A correlational study will help us examine
the extent to which differences in one characteristics or variable are related to differences in one or more other
characteristics or variable. A correlation exists if, when one variable increases, another variable either increases
or decreases in a somewhat predicatable fashion. 
This approach will provide us with a high
level understanding of the likely relationship between the number of women on  the board of directors and  
the financial performance of listed firms in the S&P500's technology sector.


Statistical Analysis
We selected a two parametric statistic approach in this study. First we used the descriptive anlaysis to descrbie the
nature of each variable in the data under observation. For each variable of interest, we determined the
measures of central tendency, variation and correlation (using bivariate) and presented the descriptive analysis in table 1 below.
[Interpret the table here].
The second parametric statistic approach used in the study was inferential statistic. We applied
the t-test in our study, to assist us to test the null hypothesis stated earlier in the study(remember that the
t0test measures whether two subgroups of a sample have large enough difference between their means that the 
difference actually exists or is statistically significatn. our subgroups are wob greater than 5 and wob less than
5. for each we determine the mean of the ROAA and ROAE, then we apply the t-test to determine level of significance).
We also used a regression analysis to measure the degrees of relationship between two
characteristics at a time (ie. WOB and ROAA, and WOB and ROAE). This we have presented in the matrice correlation
coefficent table below. We denote the dependent variable or (ROAA or ROAE) as Y and the independent variable as
WOB in the Scatter plot below.
[Interpret the table and graph here].


Descriptive statistics (for univariate data/analysis as well as bivariate)
=frequency distribution like mode
=measures of central tendency (mean, mode, median)
=measures of variation and dispersion (average deviation, SD, range, max, min, quartiles etc)
=pie chart and graphs like histogram and line graph.
[interpret analysis]


inferential statistics (for Bivariate data/analysis)
=t-test (significance level for testing subgroups of sample in interval data i.e. WOB > 5 and WOB < 5: mean(ROAA, ROAE))
=regression analysis (scatter plots X, Y and coefficient i.e. perfectly positive or negative correlation) 
[interpret analysis]
Discuss the significance level of t-test reported, discuss the homogenieity or heterogenty of the two variables
shown in the scatter plot (refer to page 184 yellow book). Discuss either the upward or downward or scattered trend
shown in the scatter plot for your regression analysis. Ask the question, can we estimate or predict the ROAA or ROAE
of a firm based on their WOB levels? Remeber that correlation does not in itself mean causualty.


Sites for help
Data Gathering procedures:
http://www.masterpapers.com/blog/thesis-writing-guide/data-gathering-procedure-for-research-papers
http://www.ohrc.on.ca/en/count-me-collecting-human-rights-based-data/6-what-involved-collecting-data-%E2%80%93-six-steps-success


