Appropriateness of the Research Design

Research Design

Sample setting, size and source

Characteristics of subjects (i.e. firms)



Classification of data

Tools or instrument

Procedure

Data assumption
Based on the quality of data is it continous or discrete
Based on the scales of measurement is it ratio, norminal, interval, ordinal
Based on the distribution of the data is it normal or non-normal distribution

Selected statistical analysis procedure
The selection of the statistical procedure that was used in the study was based on several assumptions. First,
we anlayzed the nature of the data to determine if several assumptions are met in order to use one statistical
procedure over another. A Shapiro-Wilk test was used to analyze the distribution of the ROAA and ROAE in our
sample dataset. The result of the analysis is presented below. We selected a standard significance level of 0.05 as the p-value
which we used to determine the estimation of the key parameters of the distribution found in ROAA and ROAE. A p-value 
reported in the Shapiro-Wilk test that is lower than the predetermined standard p-value of 0.05 indicates a data that
does not follow a normal distribution. In the Shapiro-Wilk test presented below, we find that the ROAA and ROAE had
a p-value of 0.004405 and 5.971e-05 respectively. The Shapiro-Wilk test shows a statistically significant test for
our ROAA and ROAE. Their p-values are less than the predertermined p-value and thus, do not follow a normal
distribution. Thus based on this assumption, our selected statistic procedure is a nonparametric statistics.

Based on the assumptions above, select the statistical procedure and techniques
required for the study.
Based on the knowledge of the SD of the population
-Parametric (if data is ratio/interval, and normally distributed)or
-Non-parametric

Ethical considerations

Internal and external validity


Future suggestions
Due to small sample, our data did not conform to a normality. Future research should use a larger sample of 
data and follow a parametric statistic procedure (provided the large sample data qualify for normality). 
The parametric statistic procedure are generally more powerful that the non-parametric procedure like the one
use in this research. 

